# EEG-DG：A Multi-Source Domain Generalization Framework for Motor Imagery EEG Classification

### This is the offical repository of the paper "EEG-DG：A Multi-Source Domain Generalization Framework for Motor Imagery EEG Classification" in IEEE Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics [https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10076833](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10609514).

Motor imagery EEG classification plays a crucial role in non-invasive Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) research. However, the performance of classification is affected by the non-stationarity and individual variations of EEG signals. Simply pooling EEG data with different statistical distributions to train a classification model can severely degrade the generalization performance. To address this issue, the existing methods primarily focus on domain adaptation, which requires access to the test data during training. This is unrealistic and impractical in many EEG application scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-source domain generalization framework called EEG-DG, which leverages multiple source domains with different statistical distributions to build generalizable models on unseen target EEG data. We optimize both the marginal and conditional distributions to ensure the stability of the joint distribution across source domains and extend it to a multi-source domain generalization framework to achieve domain-invariant feature representation, thereby alleviating calibration efforts. Systematic experiments conducted on a simulative dataset, BCI competition IV 2a, 2b, and OpenBMI datasets, demonstrate the superiority and competitive performance of our proposed framework over other state-of-the-art methods. Specifically, EEG-DG achieves average classification accuracies of 81.79% and 87.12% on datasets IV-2a and IV-2b, respectively, and 78.37% and 76.94% for inter-session and inter-subject evaluations on dataset OpenBMI, which even outperforms some domain adaptation methods.
